doc/source/sender.rst, before:

.. currentmodule:: tslumd.sender

Sender
======

The :class:`UmdSender` class is used to send tally information as UMD packets
to clients on the network.

The remote addresses can be specified on initialization by giving a Sequence of
tuples containing the address and port (:data:`Client`). The
:attr:`UmdSender.clients` container may also be modified on the instance if
clients need to be added or removed while running.

.. todo::
    The runtime behavior for manipulating :attr:`UmdSender.clients` has not been
    tested yet


Starting and Stopping
---------------------

UmdSender does not begin communication when first created.

Starting and stopping can be done by calling the :meth:`UmdSender.open` and
:meth:`UmdSender.close` methods manually

.. doctest:: UmdSender-open-close

    >>> import asyncio
    >>> from tslumd import UmdSender
    >>> async def run():
    ...     sender = UmdSender(clients=[('127.0.0.1', 65000)])
    ...     await sender.open()
    ...     ...
    ...     await sender.close()
    >>> loop = asyncio.get_event_loop()
    >>> loop.run_until_complete(run())

or it can be used as an :term:`asynchronous context manager`
in an :keyword:`async with` block

.. doctest:: UmdSender-async-with

    >>> import asyncio
    >>> from tslumd import UmdSender
    >>> async def run():
    ...     sender = UmdSender(clients=[('127.0.0.1', 65000)])
    ...     async with sender:
    ...         ...
    >>> loop = asyncio.get_event_loop()
    >>> loop.run_until_complete(run())


Object Access
-------------

UmdSender creates :ref:`Screens <screen-object>` and
:ref:`Tallies <tally-object>` using one of the following methods:

* :meth:`UmdSender.add_tally`
* :meth:`UmdSender.get_or_create_tally`
* :meth:`UmdSender.get_or_create_screen`

Additionally, it will create objects as needed when one of the
`Shortcut Methods`_ are used.

Screens are stored in the :attr:`UmdSender.screens` dictionary using their
:attr:`~tslumd.tallyobj.Screen.index` as keys.

While each Screen object contains its own Tally instances, UmdSender stores
all Tally objects from all Screens in its own :attr:`~UmdSender.tallies`
dictionary by their :attr:`Tally.id <tslumd.tallyobj.Tally.id>` (:term:`TallyKey`)


Sending Tally
-------------

Shortcut Methods
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In :class:`UmdSender`, there are several shortcut methods defined to create
and update tallies without needing to operate on :class:`~tslumd.tallyobj.Tally`
objects directly.

All of these methods operate using a :term:`TallyKey` to specify the
:ref:`Screen <screen-object>` and :ref:`Tally <tally-object>`.

For :meth:`UmdSender.set_tally_text`, the :term:`TallyKey` and the text are the
only two arguments.

For :meth:`UmdSender.set_tally_color`, the :term:`TallyKey`, :term:`TallyType`
and :term:`TallyColor` arguments are used.

.. doctest:: UmdSender-shortcuts

    >>> from pprint import pprint
    >>> from tslumd import UmdSender, TallyType, TallyColor
    >>> sender = UmdSender(clients=[('127.0.0.1', 65000)])
    >>> for cam_num in range(1, 5):
    ...     sender.set_tally_text((1, cam_num), f'Camera {cam_num}') # Creates a new Tally
    >>> pprint(sender.tallies)
    {(1, 1): <Tally: ((1, 1) - "Camera 1")>,
     (1, 2): <Tally: ((1, 2) - "Camera 2")>,
     (1, 3): <Tally: ((1, 3) - "Camera 3")>,
     (1, 4): <Tally: ((1, 4) - "Camera 4")>}
    >>> sender.set_tally_color((1, 1), TallyType.rh_tally, TallyColor.RED)
    >>> cam1_tally = sender.tallies[(1, 1)]
    >>> pprint(cam1_tally.rh_tally)
    <TallyColor.RED: 1>
    >>> # Rename "Camera 4" so you remember not to take their shot for too long
    >>> sender.set_tally_text((1, 4), 'Handheld')
    >>> pprint(sender.tallies)
    {(1, 1): <Tally: ((1, 1) - "Camera 1")>,
     (1, 2): <Tally: ((1, 2) - "Camera 2")>,
     (1, 3): <Tally: ((1, 3) - "Camera 3")>,
     (1, 4): <Tally: ((1, 4) - "Handheld")>}


Direct Tally Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In the example above, all of the changes would be sent automatically if the
UmdSender were open (and the event loop running).
To accomplish this, it listens for property changes on each
:class:`~tslumd.tallyobj.Tally` and :class:`~tslumd.tallyobj.Screen` it contains.
This also means that one can operate on a :class:`~tslumd.tallyobj.Tally`
object directly.

.. doctest:: UmdSender-tally-props

    >>> cam2_tally = sender.tallies[(1, 2)]
    >>> cam2_tally.text = 'Jim'
    >>> pprint(sender.tallies)
    {(1, 1): <Tally: ((1, 1) - "Camera 1")>,
     (1, 2): <Tally: ((1, 2) - "Jim")>,
     (1, 3): <Tally: ((1, 3) - "Camera 3")>,
     (1, 4): <Tally: ((1, 4) - "Handheld")>}
    >>> cam2_tally.txt_tally = TallyColor.GREEN
    >>> pprint(sender.tallies[cam2_tally.id].txt_tally)
    <TallyColor.GREEN: 2>


Tally States on Shutdown
------------------------

In some cases, it may be desirable for all tally lights to be remain in their
last state when UmdSender closes. It could also be preferable to ensure all
of them are "off".

This behavior can be set for either case by setting :attr:`UmdSender.all_off_on_close`
either upon creation (as an init argument), or by setting the instance attribute
(must be done before :meth:`~UmdSender.close` is called).

The default behavior is to leave all tallies in their last state. If
:attr:`~UmdSender.all_off_on_close` is set True however, messages will be
sent for all tallies across all screens to be "OFF" right before
shutdown.

Commit message:

Test for runtime modification of UmdSender.clients
Add note in docs about thread safety

doc/source/sender.rst, after:

.. currentmodule:: tslumd.sender

Sender
======

The :class:`UmdSender` class is used to send tally information as UMD packets
to clients on the network.

The remote addresses can be specified on initialization by giving a Sequence of
tuples containing the address and port (:data:`Client`). The
:attr:`UmdSender.clients` container may also be modified on the instance if
clients need to be added or removed while running.

.. note::
    Modifying :attr:`UmdSender.clients` is not a thread-safe operation and should
    only be done from within the same thread the instance belongs to.


Starting and Stopping
---------------------

UmdSender does not begin communication when first created.

Starting and stopping can be done by calling the :meth:`UmdSender.open` and
:meth:`UmdSender.close` methods manually

.. doctest:: UmdSender-open-close

    >>> import asyncio
    >>> from tslumd import UmdSender
    >>> async def run():
    ...     sender = UmdSender(clients=[('127.0.0.1', 65000)])
    ...     await sender.open()
    ...     ...
    ...     await sender.close()
    >>> loop = asyncio.get_event_loop()
    >>> loop.run_until_complete(run())

or it can be used as an :term:`asynchronous context manager`
in an :keyword:`async with` block

.. doctest:: UmdSender-async-with

    >>> import asyncio
    >>> from tslumd import UmdSender
    >>> async def run():
    ...     sender = UmdSender(clients=[('127.0.0.1', 65000)])
    ...     async with sender:
    ...         ...
    >>> loop = asyncio.get_event_loop()
    >>> loop.run_until_complete(run())


Object Access
-------------

UmdSender creates :ref:`Screens <screen-object>` and
:ref:`Tallies <tally-object>` using one of the following methods:

* :meth:`UmdSender.add_tally`
* :meth:`UmdSender.get_or_create_tally`
* :meth:`UmdSender.get_or_create_screen`

Additionally, it will create objects as needed when one of the
`Shortcut Methods`_ are used.

Screens are stored in the :attr:`UmdSender.screens` dictionary using their
:attr:`~tslumd.tallyobj.Screen.index` as keys.

While each Screen object contains its own Tally instances, UmdSender stores
all Tally objects from all Screens in its own :attr:`~UmdSender.tallies`
dictionary by their :attr:`Tally.id <tslumd.tallyobj.Tally.id>` (:term:`TallyKey`)


Sending Tally
-------------

Shortcut Methods
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In :class:`UmdSender`, there are several shortcut methods defined to create
and update tallies without needing to operate on :class:`~tslumd.tallyobj.Tally`
objects directly.

All of these methods operate using a :term:`TallyKey` to specify the
:ref:`Screen <screen-object>` and :ref:`Tally <tally-object>`.

For :meth:`UmdSender.set_tally_text`, the :term:`TallyKey` and the text are the
only two arguments.

For :meth:`UmdSender.set_tally_color`, the :term:`TallyKey`, :term:`TallyType`
and :term:`TallyColor` arguments are used.

.. doctest:: UmdSender-shortcuts

    >>> from pprint import pprint
    >>> from tslumd import UmdSender, TallyType, TallyColor
    >>> sender = UmdSender(clients=[('127.0.0.1', 65000)])
    >>> for cam_num in range(1, 5):
    ...     sender.set_tally_text((1, cam_num), f'Camera {cam_num}') # Creates a new Tally
    >>> pprint(sender.tallies)
    {(1, 1): <Tally: ((1, 1) - "Camera 1")>,
     (1, 2): <Tally: ((1, 2) - "Camera 2")>,
     (1, 3): <Tally: ((1, 3) - "Camera 3")>,
     (1, 4): <Tally: ((1, 4) - "Camera 4")>}
    >>> sender.set_tally_color((1, 1), TallyType.rh_tally, TallyColor.RED)
    >>> cam1_tally = sender.tallies[(1, 1)]
    >>> pprint(cam1_tally.rh_tally)
    <TallyColor.RED: 1>
    >>> # Rename "Camera 4" so you remember not to take their shot for too long
    >>> sender.set_tally_text((1, 4), 'Handheld')
    >>> pprint(sender.tallies)
    {(1, 1): <Tally: ((1, 1) - "Camera 1")>,
     (1, 2): <Tally: ((1, 2) - "Camera 2")>,
     (1, 3): <Tally: ((1, 3) - "Camera 3")>,
     (1, 4): <Tally: ((1, 4) - "Handheld")>}


Direct Tally Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In the example above, all of the changes would be sent automatically if the
UmdSender were open (and the event loop running).
To accomplish this, it listens for property changes on each
:class:`~tslumd.tallyobj.Tally` and :class:`~tslumd.tallyobj.Screen` it contains.
This also means that one can operate on a :class:`~tslumd.tallyobj.Tally`
object directly.

.. doctest:: UmdSender-tally-props

    >>> cam2_tally = sender.tallies[(1, 2)]
    >>> cam2_tally.text = 'Jim'
    >>> pprint(sender.tallies)
    {(1, 1): <Tally: ((1, 1) - "Camera 1")>,
     (1, 2): <Tally: ((1, 2) - "Jim")>,
     (1, 3): <Tally: ((1, 3) - "Camera 3")>,
     (1, 4): <Tally: ((1, 4) - "Handheld")>}
    >>> cam2_tally.txt_tally = TallyColor.GREEN
    >>> pprint(sender.tallies[cam2_tally.id].txt_tally)
    <TallyColor.GREEN: 2>


Tally States on Shutdown
------------------------

In some cases, it may be desirable for all tally lights to be remain in their
last state when UmdSender closes. It could also be preferable to ensure all
of them are "off".

This behavior can be set for either case by setting :attr:`UmdSender.all_off_on_close`
either upon creation (as an init argument), or by setting the instance attribute
(must be done before :meth:`~UmdSender.close` is called).

The default behavior is to leave all tallies in their last state. If
:attr:`~UmdSender.all_off_on_close` is set True however, messages will be
sent for all tallies across all screens to be "OFF" right before
shutdown.
